Welcome back.
Let's start off by talking about functions.
Remember what I said functions in JavaScript are also object and throughout the next couple of videos
we're going to explore that.
But let's review what we have learned about functions so far when we invoke a function.
We get two parameters automatically.
We get the this keyword in the arguments keyword and we learned that arguments is an array like object
that has some weird behaviors for looping an iteration.
So we want to avoid using it and instead use something like the spread operator.
And we also learned that because of the arguments object we can technically not have any parameters
defined for a function.
And when we call that function if we add parameters to it we can still grab them using the arguments
keyword.
We also learned that when we define our functions and the compiler looks at our code lexical Lee it
determines what variables are available for us in our variable environment.
And it also add our scope genes and we have a few ways of invoking and creating functions.
Right.
The first method we're very familiar with we have function 1 and this function one is going to return
1.
We've defined a function and we can invoke it like this.
Nice and easy.
So that was our first way of invoking a function.
Another way of invoking a function is as a method that is a method is a function inside of an object.
So if I do something like to
and this function to well returns to we can call this method of the object as object got to and run
the function I can also simplify this instead of saying function here with the new X-men script 6 we
can just do that.
So we're now calling the function as a method and we also notice here that because the object is the
one that's calling to the this keyword will also be updated to object instead of window so that's our
second way.
Another way that we've learned to use functions is using the call and apply.
Right.
If I do return three here I can call this function by doing three dot call and running this function.
There you go.
So those are three ways that we can define and invoke functions but there's actually one more way in
this one you're not going to see very often and it might look confusing to you at first but just to
show you we can also do something like this cost four equals to new function and in here we say Well
let's return if I run this function and click Run look at that I get for this is called a function constructor
remember our built in javascript object that the javascript language itself comes with.
Well that's what it is.
It creates functions for us and this new keyword is something we're going to talk about in the object
oriented programming section of the course.
But all we do is the first parameter is whatever we want the function text to be which is to return
for it.
And I can also add parameters so if I give it let's say parameter NUM and I say return num if I call
number four with four here I still get four it accepts parameters and whatever is in the last parameter
of the function will be the actual code body but remember what I said before.
Functions are objects and it's something that is not very common in other languages because in javascript
I can do something like function.
Woo hoo that console logs where.
Very exciting function.
But this function.
I can also say woo hoo dot Yelp and add properties to it like R and underneath the hood.
What javascript does is well it creates a special type of object called a callable object that is it's
this special object was just show you some pseudocode here so it's not exactly what's happening underneath
the hood but for your illustration purposes what we've done here is we have a Yelp property that is.
We also have a name property that comes with this function which is the name of the function itself.
So the name of the function is we who.
And then it's also a callable object that is it can be invoked.
Remember these brackets Well it's almost as if we can use this notation and whenever we run the function
it's a callable function we console door log wahoo.
Now if I actually ran this code it wouldn't work.
I just want to show you what is happening underneath the hood to review it looks something like this.
If we had some function well it would be an object.
Think of this orange box as an object with some special properties one it has a piece of code that we
can invoke.
With this these brackets and when we invoke with these brackets it reads whatever the piece of code
is inside of that function and it executes it.
Another thing it has it has a name property that is optional.
Because remember we can have anonymous functions.
So if this function was called some func the name will be some func but if we let's say used function
expression assigned it to a variable.
But the function itself is anonymous.
Well name wouldn't exist because it's optional.
Another thing we get is we get properties automatically on a function.
And we've seen them before.
We have properties like call apply and bind that allow us to act upon that function.
For example if I go back to woo hoo I can do call and we see that we have this method available for
us if I go back we see that yeah look at this this purple box these are methods that we have and then
we also have properties like arguments length name remember the name.
So that if I run this look at that we have Woo hoo.
Now what about objects.
If I created an object would I have those properties on there.
Well let's see object dot
I don't have called do I I don't have bind I don't have arguments no I don't have that remember what
I said functions are objects and they're a special type of object that is a callable object with the
bracket notation for invoking the function contains the code it has name and it also has some properties
like call apply and bind but why do we care.
Why is that really important.
Because functions are just objects in javascript that means that we can pass them around like objects
like things that contain data.
So besides just doing things for us and performing actions in our code we can also store them as data
move them around and have some really interesting applications and that's what we're going to explore
over the next couple of videos.
Let's dive in.